Bit, and, and I know from the, uh, tank, from the isolation tank,
that it's a great way of absorbing magnesium through the eepsso salts. Oh.
Into your muscle. Yeah.
Hmm. Through your, through your skin. Hmm. You know,
because eepssom salt is so high in magnesium.
Yeah. Right.
And the tank is a thousand pounds of eepssom salts. Isn't it? That's.
Crazy to make your skin like nice when you do it smooth.
<Laugh>. Yeah. Yeah. It just feels good too. But it's a,
it feels really the tank. Have you done it yet?
I did it once, um, in San Francisco. And.
You could do it anytime you want, if you wanna come here. It really, yeah.
You guys were it't. I think it was really something wasn't right.
Because I could feel like the temperature of the water was off, was all off.
And I, I did enjoy what I, what, I mean, it was nice.
So at first I got in and they had some music playing music and then the music
went away. Oh. To sort of.
Relax you at first.
Yeah. Um, but uh, I did, I was like,
sort of in my head a bit, you know, and that, but I didn't,
but I kept feeling the water and I thought, I didn't, like,
I was like sensory deprived.
Are you ever here other than like, when you come down to do the podcast?
Um, yeah, I do. I do. I'm coming back in November. Anytime.
You're here, just let me know in advance and we'll open it up.
And this tank here is the best the float lab,
or if you want to go to the place in Venice,
but the one you can do here is so easy and it's got a shower in there and
everything. Yeah. That would be.
Cool. And you can, I would like to try it again. Yeah. Time. I mean,
there are studies showing, you know,
meditation and all that stuff is really important for mm-hmm <affirmative> I
think it's an important, you know, one, one of the, you know,
of many components and like healthy aging, healthy brain aging,
lowering stress and stuff. Um, so I would, I definitely like to.
I, I get outta that thing. I feel great. I'll I'll come.
Do you do it frequently? Still? Yeah. Yeah. It's right here. You know, so I'll,
I'll come down here early in the morning and do it sometimes.
How long do you have to stay in there? To really?
I I'd like at least an hour, but I really like to do two hours.
Two hours for me is a sweet spot.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> when I come out after two hours, I'm just like,
so chill out relaxed or, yeah, it's almost like during sober October,
it's like cheating, cuz you're basically getting high in there.
It, are you doing it during sober worked October? Yeah.
Okay. I mean, it's not, you're not taking in a drug,
but you're so chilled out, you know,
and you do have a weird psychedelic state that you achieve when you're,
it's like a very extreme form of meditation in a lot of ways,
because of the fact that you're not feeling your body at all and it's,
you're only experiencing, whatever's going,
it's like your brain detached from all the input of the body.
Some of those ex some of those studies that have been done on like longterm
meditators or even just people that haven't meditated mm-hmm <affirmative> and
then they're put in like some like eight week trial of meditation and how those
like immediately all these changes in brain activities,
mm-hmm <affirmative> start to happen. Yeah. That are, you know,
basically in line with good brain aging and improved, you know,
all sorts of measure, measures of improved, uh, cognitive function and stuff.
Mm it's super interesting. Yeah. It would be really interesting to see like,
you know, what,
how that differs from meditation's one thing I have a hard time with like I.
Real it's well, meditation in conjunction with the tank,
I think is really the key. I,
I think the tank allows you to achieve a state of physical your,
your physical body, not being or not. I,
I, you don't ever completely eliminate the sensory input,
but you diminish it so significantly that that environment is not available
anywhere else on earth, where you're floating. So you don't feel your body,
your water is the, the temperature of your skin.
The air is the same temperature as the water.
And you feel you just flying through infinity you're in total darkness,
total silence. Yeah.
I didn't feel that way. I, I, I mean, I did, it was a little, little relaxed,
but I didn't feel like I was like flying through. And.
If they have cheaper tanks, that's,
that's part of the problem is some of the tanks. I.
Could feel the water the entire time. Yeah. There.
It's probably either too cold. Or' too hot.
It should be. Do you feel like your brain is like, uh,
in the now when you're doing it, is that something.
I feel like my brain is, has way more resource, race,
way more resources available to it. So like,
if you and I were having this conversation and we didn't have the headphones on
and there was a Jack hammer next to us, it would be really distracting.
You'd wanna get away from that Jack hammer. Like,
let's go talk over here until you'd want,
you'd want to get away as far as you could from,
but everything is a distraction. Like these, this seat on my butt is a,
the shoes on my feet or something. I'm thinking about the watch on my hand,
there's all these different things that are distracting you.
But when you get in that tank, there's none of those things. You're,
you're just, you settle in. And once you settle in,
you touch each side so that you can, you know, cuz you get in the waters,
like a few whip, ripples and little, little waves,
and then you touch each side. So you calm everything down.
And then I sink into the water and then I take some deep breaths and then I
slowly bring my arms in the middle and then I chill out and I've done it so many
times my body goes, okay, here we go again. Like, it's not like, whoa,
what is this? This is so weird. I've done it so many times.
My body gets into that state very quickly.
But if I take time off and I do sometimes I'll take weeks or even a month off.
And then it's a little more weird at first like, oh, we're doing this again. Oh,
I haven't done this in a while.
But when I do it consistently on a regular basis, two, three times a week,
then I could just sink right into it. I wonder if.
It would be any therapeutic benefit to people with like sensory gating
disorders, sensory gating disorders. Yeah. We're you know, in other words,
like you were mentioning all the senses,
other sensory things that are happening, you know, there's auditory,
there's smell, there's visual. I mean,
these things are our brains inputting it at all times. I mean,
there's stuff going on, but we're able to kind of filter it out and like,
you and I are having this conversation,
Jamie's been sitting over the whole time and like,
I really haven't paid much attention. I pay attention to <laugh>.
But some people like, particularly schizophrenic people with schizophrenia,
they can't, they don't filter that out. And so right. Like they get overload,
like it's like an overload it's called sensory overload.
And so they oftentimes like, can't go into like a room with a lot of people.
They don't wanna like go off and, you know, with, you know,
by themselves or whatever. So I wonder if there's any sort of, uh,
benefit for like doing something like that, where you're, where you're not,
you know,
the sensory inputs kind of like if you could kind of train your brain a little
bit. Mm. I don't know. I.
Don't know. I just, I find that for me,
it helps me think way clearer.
Cause I feel like I have more brain available to access.
I feel like if you were trying to say something that was very,
very complicated and you were trying to explain something that required a lot of
the resources of your brain. If there was a lot of noise around you,
you wouldn't be able to do it, but there's a lot of noise. You're like,
you want to eat? Let's go eat. And you're like pop, pop, pop, pop, pop,
some Jack camera. I'm hungry. You want to eat? Yeah, let's go eat.
Like you could be able to communicate something very simple.
But if you were trying to explain the various mechanisms,
of<inaudible> things. Yeah. I should really try this. Yeah. Because I think I,
cause I go.
Through like this, I also sometimes use this sauna for that where I'll like,
<affirmative> have something like prepared. I used to actually,
before giving a presentation,
I would go in the sauna and I would go through it in my head. Mm. You know?
So it's like, you know, that was something that, that I used to do a lot.
Right. Cause the sauna, there's nothing in there. Just you yeah.
Sitting there and it gives you that unusual environment of just silence. It.
Really helps. Yeah. Yeah.
So it's kind of interesting that you mentioned that with the.
Yeah. That's a step toward, but I think the, the float tank is the ultimate.
And right now there's a really interesting podcast that's available. Um,
I I've talked about this podcast before stuff to blow your mind. They have a,
an episode right now this week that is about John, on Lilly,
who was the psychedelic pioneer who created the, uh, sensory deprivation tank.
And he also is a pioneer in interspecies communication, figured out,
um,
how to communicate with dolphins and did a bunch of weird psychedelic research
with dolphins. There it is from the vault, John C Lilly. He, uh, really amazed,
amazing guy who, uh, uh, I mean, if you go,
they go deep into the history of his, his career too,
which is just very varied, really strange guy. But I think his,
his great contribution is not just understanding the sentinchent nature
of dolphins and how incredibly complex their life languages and how smart they
are. But also the sensory deprivation tank, which I,
I think is it's one of the most underutilized tools for consciousness,
for exploring consciousness and just for relaxation. And for me,
for examining ideas, if I have an idea, like I used to do,
I used to do a lot of jujitsu in there.
Like I would go into the tank and I would removes cuz when you're,
when you're completely out, I would, I would drill moves in my head.
Like as if I was doing them, I would like clench hook, roll, talk,
grab sink. I would do all these different things in my head to practicing it.
Yeah. And I would allow,
I would do that to get me to this like relaxation state and I,
or I would go over a joke that I'm struggling with or a comedy bit. I'm like,
what is a better way to say this? How's, what's the best way to get this across.
Now I'm saying it this way, but it's uh,
offensive or it's blunt and it's not the funny, like I'm, I'm,
I'm taking a shortcut maybe I'd about, and then I would go over it in my head.
And then eventually once I would do that,
I would get to this relaxation point where then I could just concentrate only on
breathing.
So after I've like worked out all the things that are bugging me and sometimes
it would be like a seminar on my life. I'd get it in there.
And then as soon as I close the tank door and lay down,
I take a few deep breath and then I'd be like, okay, so here's, what's wrong.
face. You're doing too much of this clean your office. You know, how come you,
uh, you only get eight outta 10 things done in your to-do list.
That's bothering you. You know, you need to spend an hour a day just doing this.
And instead of drinking coffee and looking at your phone before you work out,
just work out,
just get in there and get your you're wasting 20 minutes doing that,
that 20 minutes, you could have been done 20 minutes earlier.
And then you wouldn't have to rush over here to do the podcast. And,
and it's like, it starts sort of giving me almost like a subconscious,
uh, renovation, you know, like, just so just sort of like, cuz okay,
like this is this, all this stuff in your subconscious is disturbing you.
And here's why it's disturbing you cuz you've got all this clutter.
So let's clean this up, clean it up, get it together.
And it's been responsible for, I think a lot of my focus and discipline,
like understanding the significance of that focus and discipline.
And it's not just like to be a tough guy or to just go out there and kick.
It's it's more like to, to absolve yourself of brain clutter.
That's.
Pretty awesome that introspection you're talking about. Yeah.
I think a lot of people could use more of that, including myself. I mean,
it's certainly.
Think all of us, I think all of us,
really anyone listening to this and I think there's probably one in San Diego.
So if there's a tank place in San Diego, reach out to Dr. Rhonda,
Patrick <laugh> and uh,
I'm sure that there's a place you could use that's down there. That's.
Near you. I mean, I certainly use other things like, uh,
extra running long runs. Sure. Do that. Do something similar in that zone,
the zone. Yeah, just sort of, but uh,
what you're describing sounds kind of like next level.
A lot of people get it from swimming as well, swimming. Yeah.
This's just like kinda repetitive just yeah. That repetitive thing.
And then you're sort of managing the motion of your body and then once you get
in,
it's almost like a mantra you're managing the motion of your body and then the
breathing. And then once you, you get it all synced up.
If you're in good enough shape that it's not like a Titanic struggle with every,
every lap or every stroke of your arms,
you can get into this sort of meditative state that a lot of people achieve with
running or,
or even with just like sitting there and breathing like a lot of people get.
That. Yeah. I have a difficult time doing that, but uh, yeah, it's hard. Yeah.
<Laugh> is it it funny that it would be hard to sit still? It is.
It is funny. Um, there's actually like the, the,
some of the other interesting stuff is just doing that. Sit there,
sit still and breathe changes like the,
the activation of enzymes and stuff.
Liketamase the enzyme that rebuilds tillamome. Yeah.
It literally activates tilamase so, so fascinating.
How just like certain things like,
like I wouldn't imagine doing that would actually, you know, changetamerase.
Yeah. The body's just never ending puzzle. It really is.
And whenever I talk to you,
you a more and more sort of aware of that because there's so many different
things and so many different mechanisms in,
in terms of nutrition and nutritional absorption that I just I'm so ignorant of.
And so I hear all these things and I'm like, I'm trying to,
trying to get a map of the territory.
I, yeah, I'm also, there's so many things I'm ignorant of as well.
But I feel like every time I talk,
it's like someone's breaking out a little napkin and going, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And then you take a right here and you go there and I go, all right.
But it's not a real map. Like the,
the map of the whole thing escapes me. It's too big. It is.
It's too big. It's and it's too complex and I'll listen to this podcast again,
like, I'll listen to all the things you, you said again,
and I'll try to take notes maybe tomorrow or the next day.
But then my stupid brain will like, it'll like leak half of it'll leak out.
It's like, I'm trying to hold water in my fingers. It's like, I got it.
I've got some water. It's a dripping down my wrists. It's so hard.
It's so hard to get a, a real understanding of this stuff.